# data

This dataset was compiled using the Area Health Resource Files data for 2019-2020, 2020-2021, 2021-2022, and 2022-2023. After selecting the relevant information, the compiled dataset has 357 columns and 64 rows. For supplementary data, I may use the original data files, labeled `ahrf_2019_2020_maine.csv`, `ahrf_2020_2021_maine.csv`, `ahrf_2021_2022_maine.csv`, and `ahrf_2022_2023_maine.csv`. Information about these files and the variables can be found in the hpsa_provided_documentation folder. 

## ahrf_2019_2023

Specific data collection and perimeters can be found in the `hpsa_provided_documentation` folder. 

- `year`: year the data was collected
- `county_name`: county name 
- `fips_county`: FIPS = Federal Information Processing Standards. Has unique two number state codes and three number county codes. Because I am only including information from Maine, I've chosen to only include the FIPS county code. 
- `cbsa_20`: CBSA = core based statistical area, includes metropolitan and micropolitan areas. A metropolitan statistical area includes at least one urban area with a population greater than 50,000 and with significant social and economic integration in the surrounding area. Micropolitan statistical areas include an urban cluster with a population of at least 10,000 but less than 50,000. The surrounding area has significant social and economic integration. This dataset defined metro- and micropolitan areas for the whole county. 
- `cbsa_name_20`: the name of the metro- or micropolitan statistical areas in a county
- `cbsa_ind_20`: defines a county as not a statistical area (0), a metropolitan statistical area (1), or a micropolitan statistical area (2)
- `cbsa_cnty_stats_20`: counties designated as metro- or micropolitan statistical areas are categorized as central or outlying. Central counties are where at least 50 percent of the population lives in an urban area of at least 10,000 or where at least 5,000 people live in an urban area with a population of 10,000 or more. Outlying counties are categorized by whether they meet requirements for commuting to or from central counties. 
- `rural_urban_contnm_13`: Rural/Urban Continuum Codes (2013) are from the Economic Research Service of the USDA. The codes distinguish metropolitan counties (based on population of metro areas) and nonmetropolitan counties (degree of urbanization and proximity to a metro area). Codes are assigned on the county level: 
  - 1 (counties with metro areas of more than 1,000,000 people, metro county)
  - 2 (counties with metro areas of 250,000 to 1,000,000 people, metro county)
  - 3 (counties with metro areas of fewer than 250,000 people, metro county)
  - 4 (counties adjacent to a metro area with an urban population of more than 20,000, nonmetro county)
  - 5 (counties that are not adjacent to a metro area but have an urban population of more than 20,000,           nonmetro county)
  - 6 (counties adjacent to a metro area with an urban population of 2,500 to 19,999, nonmetro county)
  - 7 (counties that are not adjacent to a metro area but have an urban population of 2,500 - 19,999),            nonmetro county)
  - 8 (counties adjacent to a metro area but are rural or have an urban population of less than 2,500,            nonmetro county)
  - 9 (counties that are not adjacent to a metro area and are rural or have an urban population of less than        2,500, nonmetry county)

- `econ_depndnt_typolgy_15`: This is a County Typology Code (2015) from the USDA's Economic Research Service. County typology codes classify counties based on economic and social characteristics that impact development and can highlight needs to be addressed by public programs. There are 6 economic dependent types: 
  - 0 = nonspecialized, 1 = farming dependent, 2 = mining dependent, 3 = manufacturing dependent, 4 = federal/state government dependent, 5 = recreation
- `farmng_depndnt_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as farming dependent if a) at least 25% of the county's average annual labor and proprietor's earnings came from farming, or b) at least 16% of jobs were in farming. The percent of earnings and jobs were measured by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Local Area Personal Income and Employment data (2010-2012)
- `minng_depndnt_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as mining dependent if a) at least 13% of the county's average annual labor and proprietor's earnings came from mining, or b) at least 8% of jobs were in mining. The percent of earnings and jobs were measured by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Local Area Personal Income and Employment data (2010-2012)
- `mfg_depndnt_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as manufacturing dependent if a) at least 23% of the county's average annual labor and proprietor's earnings came from manufacturing, or b) at least 16% of jobs were in manufacturing. The percent of earnings and jobs were measured by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Local Area Personal Income and Employment data (2010-2012)
- `fed_st_govt_depndnt_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as federal/state government dependent if a) at least 14% of the county's annual labor and proprietor's earnings came from federal or state government, or b) at least 9% of jobs were in federal or state government. The percent of earnings and jobs were measured by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Local Area Personal Income and Employment data (2010-2012)
- `recrtn_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as recreation using three data sources: the percentage of wage and salary employment (out of all employment) from entertainment and recreation, accommodations, eating and drinking places, and real estate as reported by the Bureau of Economic analysis; 2) the percent of total income for the previously listed categories as reported by the Bureau of Economic Analysis; and 3) the percentage of vacant housing reported to the 2010 census to be for seasonal or occasional use. 
- `nonspclzd_depndnt_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as nonspecialized if it did not meet the criteria for any of the other economic dependency types (measured by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Local Area Personal Income and Employment data (2010-2012)). 

- `lo_eductn_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as having low education if 20% (or more) of the county's residents between the ages of 25 and 24 did not have a high school diploma (or equivalent). This variable is a policy type (variables are not mutually exclusive and counties may have multiple policy types) and is determined by the five year average (2008-2012) from the American Community Survey. 
- `lo_emplymt_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as having low employment if fewer than 65% of the county's residents between the ages of 25 and 64 are employed. This variable is a policy type (variables are not mutually exclusive and counties may have multiple policy types) and is determined by the five year average (2008-2012) from the American Community Survey. 
- `prstnt_povty_typolgy_14`: a county is classified as having persistent poverty if 20% (or more) of the county's residents were considered poor in the 1980, 1990, and 2000 censuses, as well as the American Community Survey 5 year average (2007-2011). This variable is a policy type (variables are not mutually exclusive and counties may have multiple policy types). 
- `prstnt_child_povty_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as having persistent child poverty if 20% (or more) of the county's residents under the age of 18 were considered poor in the 1980, 1990, and 2000 censuses, as well as the American Community Survey 5 year average (2007-2011). This variable is a policy type (variables are not mutually exclusive and counties may have multiple policy types). 
- `popn_loss_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as having population loss if the county's population declined between the 1990 and 2000 censuses AND the 2000 and 2010 censuses. 
- `retrmnt_destntn_typolgy_15`: a county is classified as a retirement destination if the county's population ages 60 or older increased by at least 15% between the 2000 and 2010 censuses. 

HPSA codes are defined as: 0) the county is not considered to be a shortage area, 1) the whole county is considered a shortage area, 2) one or more parts of the county are considered a shortage area. 
- `hpsa_prim_care_23`, `hpsa_prim_care_22`, `hpsa_prim_care_21`, `hpsa_prim_care_20`, `hpsa_prim_care_19`, `hpsa_prim_care_18`, `hpsa_prim_care_17`, `hpsa_prim_care_16`, `hpsa_prim_care_15`, `hpsa_prim_care_10`: includes data for 2010, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023. This variable includes non-federal doctors of medicine (MD) and doctors of osteopathy (DO) who are engaged in direct patient care and practice general or family medicine, general internal medicine, pediatrics, and obstetrics and gynecology. This variable does not include physicians who are primarily involved in administration, research, or teaching. A county must meet the following criteria to be considered as having a shortage of primary care providers: 1) the area is considered a "rational area" (the HRSA does not share a definition) for primary medical care services to be delivered; 2) the area either a) has at least one full-time-equivalent primary care physician for every 3,500 people or b) has at least one full-time-equivalent primary care physician for between 3,000 and 3,500 but demonstrates either an unusually high need for primary care providers or the existing primary care providers do not have adequate capacity; and 3) the primary care medical services in surrounding areas do not have capacity, are "excessively distant" (again, not defined), or inaccessible. 
- `hpsa_dent_23`,	`hpsa_dent_22`,	`hpsa_dent_21`,	`hpsa_dent_20`,	`hpsa_dent_19`,	`hpsa_dent_18`,	`hpsa_dent_17`,	`hpsa_dent_16`,	`hpsa_dent_15`,	`hpsa_dent_10`: includes data for 2010, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023. This variable includes non-federal dentists in patient care (general practice or pedodontics). A county must meet the following criteria to be considered as having a shortage of dental providers: 1) the area is considered a "rational area" for dental services to be delivered; 2) the area either a) has one full-time-equivalent dentist for every 5,000 people or b) has one full-time-equivalent dentist for between 4,000 and 5,000 people but demonstrates either an unusually high need for dental care or the existing dental care providers do not have adequate capacity; and 3) the dental services in surrounding areas do not have capacity, are "excessively distant" (again, not defined), or inaccessible. 
- `hpsa_mentl_hlth_23`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_22`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_21`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_20`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_19`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_18`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_17`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_16`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_15`,	`hpsa_mentl_hlth_10`: includes data for 2010, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, and 2023. This variable includes non-federal psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, clinical social workers, psychiatric nurse specialists, and marriage and family therapists. A county must meet the following criteria to be considered as having a shortage of mental health providers: 1) the area is considered a "rational area" for mental health services to be delivered; 2) the area has either a) one core mental health professional for every 6,000 people and one psychiatrist for every 20,000 people OR one core mental health professional for every 9,000 people OR one psychiatrist for every 30,000 people, or b) the area has been identified as having an unusually high need for mental health services and has one core mental health professional for every 4,5000 people and one psychiatrist for every 15,000 people OR one core mental health professional for every 6,000 people OR one psychiatrist for every 20,000 people; and 3) the mental health services in surrounding areas do not have capacity, are "excessively distant" (again, not defined), or inaccessible.

- `phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_21`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_20`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_19`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_18`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_17`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_16`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_15`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_14`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_13`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_12`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_11`,	`phys_nf_prim_care_pc_exc_rsdt_10`: includes data for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal primary care physicians (MD and DO, excluding residents and physicians age 75 and older) working in patient care
- `md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_21`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_20`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_19`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_18`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_17`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_16`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_15`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_14`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_13`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_12`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_11`,	`md_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_10`: includes data for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal primary care medical doctors (excluding residents) working in patient care
- `do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_21`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_20`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_19`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_18`, `do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_17`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_16`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_15`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_14`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_13`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_12`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_11`,	`do_nf_prim_care_pc_excl_rsdnt_10`: includes data for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal primary care osteopathic doctors (excluding residents) working in patient care
- `md_nf_activ_21`,	`md_nf_activ_20`,	`md_nf_activ_19`,	`md_nf_activ_18`,	`md_nf_activ_17`,	`md_nf_activ_16`,	`md_nf_activ_15`,	`md_nf_activ_14`,	`md_nf_activ_13`,	`md_nf_activ_12`,	`md_nf_activ_11`,	`md_nf_activ_10`: includes data for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal active medical doctors
- `md_nf_all_pc_21`, `md_nf_all_pc_20`, `md_nf_all_pc_19`, `md_nf_all_pc_18`,	`md_nf_all_pc_17`,	`md_nf_all_pc_16`, `md_nf_all_pc_15`, `md_nf_all_pc_14`, `md_nf_all_pc_13`, `md_nf_all_pc_12`,	`md_nf_all_pc_11`, `md_nf_all_pc_10`: includes data for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021.The number of non-federal medical doctors in patient care
- `md_nf_all_gp_21`, `md_nf_all_gp_20`,	`md_nf_all_gp_19`,	`md_nf_all_gp_18`,	`md_nf_all_gp_15`,	`md_nf_all_gp_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in general practice
- `md_nf_fammed_gen_21`,	`md_nf_fammed_gen_20`,	`md_nf_fammed_gen_19`,	`md_nf_fammed_gen_18`,	`md_nf_fammed_gen_15`,	`md_nf_fammed_gen_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in family medicine
- `md_nf_all_med_spec_21`, `md_nf_all_med_spec_20`,	`md_nf_all_med_spec_19`,	`md_nf_all_med_spec_18`,	`md_nf_all_med_spec_15`,	`md_nf_all_med_spec_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in all specialties (allergy and immunology, cardiovascular disease, dermatology, gastroenterology, general internal medicine, internal medicine subspecialties, general pediatrics, pediatric subspecialties, pediatric allergy, pediatric cardiology, pulmonary disease)
- `md_nf_allergy_21`,	`md_nf_allergy_20`,	`md_nf_allergy_19`,	`md_nf_allergy_18`,	`md_nf_allergy_15`,	`md_nf_allergy_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in allergy and immunology
- `md_nf_card_dis_21`,	`md_nf_card_dis_20`,	`md_nf_card_dis_19`,	`md_nf_card_dis_18`,	`md_nf_card_dis_15`,	`md_nf_card_dis_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in cardiovascular disease
- `md_nf_derm_21`,	`md_nf_derm_20`,	`md_nf_derm_19`,	`md_nf_derm_18`,	`md_nf_derm_15`,	`md_nf_derm_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in dermatology
- `md_nf_gastr_21`,	`md_nf_gastr_20`,	`md_nf_gastr_19`,	`md_nf_gastr_18`,	`md_nf_gastr_15`,	`md_nf_gastr_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in gastroenterology
- `md_nf_genintmed_21`,	`md_nf_genintmed_20`,	`md_nf_genintmed_19`,	`md_nf_genintmed_18`,	`md_nf_genintmed_15`,	`md_nf_genintmed_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in general internal medicine
- `md_nf_ped_gen_21`,	`md_nf_ped_gen_20`,	`md_nf_ped_gen_19`,	`md_nf_ped_gen_18`,	`md_nf_ped_gen_15`,	`md_nf_ped_gen_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in general pediatrics
- `md_nf_all_surg_spec_21`,	`md_nf_all_surg_spec_20`,	`md_nf_all_surg_spec_19`,	`md_nf_all_surg_spec_18`,	`md_nf_all_surg_spec_15`,	`md_nf_all_surg_spec_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in all surgical specialties (colon/rectal surgery, general surgery, neurological surgery, general obstetrics-gynecology, obstetrics-gynecology subspecialties, ophthalmology, orthopedic surgery, otolaryngology, plastic surgery, thoracic surgery, urology)
- `md_nf_gen_surg_21`,	`md_nf_gen_surg_20`,	`md_nf_gen_surg_19`,	`md_nf_gen_surg_18`,	`md_nf_gen_surg_15`,	`md_nf_gen_surg_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in general surgery
- `md_nf_obgyn_gen_21`,	`md_nf_obgyn_gen_20`,	`md_nf_obgyn_gen_19`,	`md_nf_obgyn_gen_18`,	`md_nf_obgyn_gen_15`,	`md_nf_obgyn_gen_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in obstetrics-gynecology
- `md_nf_ophth_21`,	`md_nf_ophth_20`,	`md_nf_ophth_19`,	`md_nf_ophth_18`,	`md_nf_ophth_15`,	`md_nf_ophth_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in ophthalmology
- `md_nf_all_oth_spec_21`,	`md_nf_all_oth_spec_20`,	`md_nf_all_oth_spec_19`,	`md_nf_all_oth_spec_18`,	`md_nf_all_oth_spec_15`,	`md_nf_all_oth_spec_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in all other specialties (aerospace medicine, anesthesiology, child and adolescent psychiatry, diagnostic radiology, emergency medicine, forensic pathology, general preventative medicine, medical genetics, neurology, nuclear medicine, occupational medicine, psychiatry, pathology, physical medicine/rehabilitation, public health and general preventative medicine, radiology, radiation oncology, transplant surgery, vascular medicine, other subspecialties, and unspecified)
- `md_nf_anesth_21`,	`md_nf_anesth_20`,	`md_nf_anesth_19`,	`md_nf_anesth_18`,	`md_nf_anesth_15`,	`md_nf_anesth_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in anesthesiology
- `md_nf_child_psych_21`,	`md_nf_child_psych_20`,	`md_nf_child_psych_19`,	`md_nf_child_psych_18`,	`md_nf_child_psych_15`,	`md_nf_child_psych_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in child and adolescent psychiatry
- `md_nf_emerg_med_21`,	`md_nf_emerg_med_20`,	`md_nf_emerg_med_19`,	`md_nf_emerg_med_18`,	`md_nf_emerg_med_15`,	`md_nf_emerg_med_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in emergency medicine
- `md_nf_neuro_21`,	`md_nf_neuro_20`,	`md_nf_neuro_19`,	`md_nf_neuro_18`,	`md_nf_neuro_15`,	`md_nf_neuro_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in neurology
- `md_nf_psych_21`,	`md_nf_psych_20`,	`md_nf_psych_19`,	`md_nf_psych_18`,	`md_nf_psych_15`,	`md_nf_psych_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal medical doctors in psychiatry
- `do_nf_activ_21`,	`do_nf_activ_20`,	`do_nf_activ_19`,	`do_nf_activ_18`,	`do_nf_activ_17`,	`do_nf_activ_16`,	`do_nf_activ_15`,	`do_nf_activ_14`,	`do_nf_activ_13`,	`do_nf_activ_12`,	`do_nf_activ_11`,	`do_nf_activ_10`: includes data for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal active osteopathic doctors
- `do_nf_gp_21`,	`do_nf_gp_20`,	`do_nf_gp_19`,	`do_nf_gp_18`,	`do_nf_gp_15`,	`do_nf_gp_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in general practice
- `do_nf_fammed_gen_21`,	`do_nf_fammed_gen_20`,	`do_nf_fammed_gen_19`,	`do_nf_fammed_gen_18`,	`do_nf_fammed_gen_15`,	`do_nf_fammed_gen_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in family medicine
- `do_nf_ped_gen_21`,	`do_nf_ped_gen_20`,	`do_nf_ped_gen_19`,	`do_nf_ped_gen_18`,	`do_nf_ped_gen_15`,	`do_nf_ped_gen_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in general pediatrics 
- `do_nf_obgyn_gen_21`,	`do_nf_obgyn_gen_20`,	`do_nf_obgyn_gen_19`,	`do_nf_obgyn_gen_18`,	`do_nf_obgyn_gen_15`,	`do_nf_obgyn_gen_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in obstetrics-gynecology
- `do_nf_gen_surg_21`,	`do_nf_gen_surg_20`,	`do_nf_gen_surg_19`,	`do_nf_gen_surg_18`,	`do_nf_gen_surg_15`,	`do_nf_gen_surg_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in general surgery
- `do_nf_emerg_med_21`,	`do_nf_emerg_med_20`,	`do_nf_emerg_med_19`,	`do_nf_emerg_med_18`,	`do_nf_emerg_med_15`,	`do_nf_emerg_med_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in emergency medicine
- `do_nf_psych_21`,	`do_nf_psych_20`,	`do_nf_psych_19`,	`do_nf_psych_18`,	`do_nf_psych_15`,	`do_nf_psych_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in psychiatry
- `do_nf_oth_spec_21`,	`do_nf_oth_spec_20`,	`do_nf_oth_spec_19`,	`do_nf_oth_spec_18`,	`do_nf_oth_spec_15`,	`do_nf_oth_spec_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of non-federal osteopathic doctors in all other specialties (aerospace medicine, anesthesiology, child and adolescent psychiatry, diagnostic radiology, emergency medicine, forensic pathology, general preventative medicine, medical genetics, neurology, nuclear medicine, occupational medicine, psychiatry, pathology, physical medicine/rehabilitation, public health and general preventative medicine, radiology, radiation oncology, transplant surgery, vascular medicine, other subspecialties, and unspecified)

- `pa_npi_22`,	`pa_npi_21`,	`pa_npi_20`,	`pa_npi_19`,	`pa_npi_18`,	`pa_npi_17`,	`pa_npi_16`,	`pa_npi_15`,	`pa_npi_14`,	`pa_npi_13`,	`pa_npi_12`,	`pa_npi_11`,	`pa_npi_10`: includes data from 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Number of physicians assistants with a National Provider Identifier (NPI)
- `aprn_npi_22`,	`aprn_npi_21`,	`aprn_npi_20`,	`aprn_npi_19`,	`aprn_npi_18`,	`aprn_npi_17`,	`aprn_npi_16`,	`aprn_npi_15`,	`aprn_npi_14`,	`aprn_npi_13`,	`aprn_npi_12`,	`aprn_npi_11`,	`aprn_npi_10`: includes data from 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. Number of advanced practice registered nurses with a National Provider Identifier (NPI). Advanced practice registered nurse includes advanced practice midwives, certified registered nurse anesthetists, clinical nurse specialists, and nurse practitioners. 

- `hosp_21`,	`hosp_20`,	`hosp_19`,	`hosp_18`,	`hosp_15`,	`hosp_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. Total number of hospitals in a county
- `stgh_21`,	`stgh_20`,	`stgh_19`,	`stgh_18`,	`stgh_15`,	`stgh_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. Total number of short term general hospitals in a county. A hospital is considered to be short term general if they provide non-specialized care and most of their patients stay for less than 30 days
- `stngh_21`,	`stngh_20`,	`stngh_19`,	`stngh_18`,	`stngh_15`,	`stngh_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. Total number of short term non-general hospitals in a county. A hospital is considered to be short term non-general if they provide specialized care and most of their patients stay for less than 30 days
- `lth_21`,	`lth_20`,	`lth_19`,	`lth_18`,	`lth_15`,	`lth_10`: includes data from 2010, 2015, 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. Total number of long term hospitals in a county. A hospital is considered long term is most of their patients stay for at least 30 days. They may provide specialized or non-specialized care. 

- `critcl_access_hosp_21`,	`critcl_access_hosp_20`,	`critcl_access_hosp_19`,	`critcl_access_hosp_18`: includes data from 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of critical access hospitals in a county. The data documentation did not come with a definition for critical access hospitals, nor was it defined on the HRSA website, although they do have a page with limited information about critical access hospitals (https://www.hrsa.gov/opa/eligibility-and-registration/hospitals/critical-access-hospitals). However, according to ruralhealthinfo.org (https://www.ruralhealthinfo.org/topics/critical-access-hospitals), rural hospitals can be designated as critial access hospitals with the goal of reducing the financial vulnerability of rural hospitals and increasing access to healthcare by keeping rural hospitals open. 
- `rural_refrrl_ctr_21`,	`rural_refrrl_ctr_20`,	`rural_refrrl_ctr_19`,	`rural_refrrl_ctr_18`: includes data from 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of rural referral centers in a county. The data documentation did not come with a definition for rural referral centers, however, the HRSA (https://www.hrsa.gov/opa/eligibility-and-registration/hospitals/rural-referral-centers) defines a rural referral center as "high-volume acute care rural hospitals that treat a large number of complicated cases". 
- `stgh_substnc_use_inpat_care_21`,	`stgh_substnc_use_inpat_care_20`,	`stgh_substnc_use_inpat_care_19`,	`stgh_substnc_use_inpat_care_18`: includes data from 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of short term general hospitals with substance use disorder care in a county. 
- `stgh_psych_care_21`,	`stgh_psych_care_20`,	`stgh_psych_care_19`,	`stgh_psych_care_18`: includes data from 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021. The number of short term general hospitals with psychiatric care in a county. 
